I am Sophie Friederike, also known as Catherine
the Great, born in 1729 in Stettin, current
day Poland. I was the Empress of Russia for
more than 30 years and one of the country’s
most influential rulers.
In 1745, after being received into the Russian
Orthodox Church, I married Grand Duke Peter,
grandson of Peter the Great and heir to the
Russian throne. The fruit of this marriage
was our only son, Paul. In 1762 my husband
became Tsar Peter III but he was soon overthrown
with me being declared empress.
My major influences on my adopted country
were in expanding Russia's borders and continuing
the process of Westernization begun by Peter
the Great. During my reign I extended the
Russian empire southwards and westwards, adding
territories which included the Crimea, Belarus,
and Lithuania. Agreements with Prussia and
Austria led to three partitions of Poland,
in 1772, 1793, and 1795, extending Russia's
borders into central Europe.
I proposed many political and social reforms.
In 1767, I convened the Legislative Commission
to codify Russia's laws and, in the process,
modernized Russian life presenting my vision
of the ideal government. However, the outbreak
of war against the Ottoman Empire in 1768
provided a good opportunity to disband it.
After the Russian army crushed the Pugachev
Rebellion in 1775, I realized my heavy reliance
on the nobility to control the country and
instigated a series of reforms giving them
greater control over their land and serfs.
My main interests were in education and culture.
I read widely and corresponded with many of
the prominent thinkers of the era, including
Voltaire and Diderot. I was a patron of the
arts, literature and education and acquired
an art collection which now forms the basis
of the Hermitage Museum. I died in St Petersburg
in 1796 and was succeeded by my son Paul.
One does not always do the best there is.
One does the best one can. I have dedicated
my passion to take Russia to unprecedented
success and I hope it is still to this day,
a torch of enlightenment and peace.